Danielle Collins
November 6, 2018
TRGN 510 Final Project: Proposed Scope of Work

Section 1: Description.
A 3-5 sentence description of the project deliverable.

The current diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease comes after irreversible brain damage and mental decline has occurred.  However, what if we could restructure the detection structure to elicit earlier diagnosis before the onset of symptoms?  For this project, I hope to explore Alzheimer’s data and conduct a bioinformatic analysis of a major dataset to draw correlations among patients inflicted with the disease.  This will include both supervised (differential analysis via t-tests) and unsupervised (hierarchical clustering and principal components analysis) analysis.  Ultimately, I hope to link clinical parameters from the clinical data table with the gene expression table and draw analyses from this combination. 

Section 2: Datasets.
A detailed description of data and the type, format.  Where possible please specify URL.  Description of unit test.

The dataset I have chosen to use for this project is from the Allen Brain Atlas Aging, Dementia, and TBI Study.  All of the information is downloaded in tabular form as comma-separated values (csv) files.  I am using the de-identified clinical information table that includes Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, and TBI diagnoses for all donors included in the study.  The table I am correlating this data with is the normalized and unnormalized gene-level FPKM values for all samples. 

Proposed Analysis: 
Description of the proposed analysis including libraries.  The analysis may be conducted with some real-time interactivity. 

As mentioned in the project deliverable, I plan to perform both supervised and unsupervised data analysis.  This will include differential analysis, hierarchical clustering, and principle components analysis.  I would like to discover the prominent SNPs  and how they correlate to the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s.  

Proposed Timeline & Major milestones (or segments):
Details of expected major milestones.

Milestone 1 (11/13/18): By the first milestone I would like to have explored all the data in its entirety, loaded it into R, and started experimenting with different analyses I can perform.  This way I will have a broad idea of which are the most important analyses to include in the project.
Milestone 2 (11/20/18): By the second milestone I will have not only decided which analyses that are going to be incorporated, but also successfully implemented them with my dataset. 
Milestone 3 (11/27/18): By the third milestone I will have the bulk computing of the data completed and work on the aesthetic components of the webpage.  I will decide if there needs to be textual explanations and how to structure the graphs in a understandable manner to the user. 
Beta Release (11/27/18): Have a functional working copy of the assignment alongside with an issue report and QA. 
Final Project Delivery (12/05/18) @11:59PM: Assignment received

User Interface.
Wire diagram, powerpoint, or other illustration of the anticipated user interface and functionality. 

The user interface for my project will be an interactive webpage using R shiny that will be published to the internet.  

Notes from Dr. Craig.

Link clinical parameters from the clinical table and the gene expression tables.  
Gene expression measure: FPKM
50000: by gene (exons) or hundred thousand: transcript
PCA of FPKM: choose clinical parameters 
	Driver of variation: areas of the brain, age
What are the two groups? 
APOE4: two SNPs are the biggest drivers genetically 
